So a tamper-proof
ledger is crucial
for creating a system
of property rights.
So in my example in
the previous lecture,
I created such a ledger
recursively and
the key trick is that
every entry contains
a little copy of
the previous entry in
the form of a digest.
But my simple method is
pretty easy to work around.
Now, here's the thing,
Blockchain is the same idea
but with cryptography so that
it is hard to work around.
Also, another key
difference instead
of transactions
appearing one at a time,
Blockchain stores
transactions into blocks.
That's important for efficiency.
Now to understand how
Blockchain works,
we do need some concepts
from cryptography and
from computer science.
So here is an outline
of this lecture.
First, I'm going to discuss
something called the linked list,
then the hash function,
the hash pointer,
putting it together
which is Blockchain,
and then back to my example,
how Blockchain creates
a truly tamper-proof ledger.
Well, so first we're going
to talk about a linked list
and important to this idea of
a linked list is something
called a pointer.
So a pointer in computer science,
is a language object that stores
the memory address of
another value located
in the computer memory.
So the idea is it's
not the object itself,
but it tells you where
to find the object.
It's like an index entry.
So then if that's a point,
what's a linked list?
A linked list is
a linear collection
of data elements such
that each element contains
a pointer that
points to the next.
So the elements might be
entirely different places but
they are connected by pointers.
So what these pointers
do is they turn what is
a random collection of
objects into an ordered list.
Now, the list could be anything.
For example, it
could be a list of
financial transactions
in which case,
a list of financial
transactions with
a system of pointers is a ledger.
So let's go back to my example
from the previous lecture.
Maria creates a single MariaCoin,
Maria sells the
MariaCoin to Sophie,
Sophie sells
the MariaCoin to Geoff.
We could digitally implement
this list by turning
each description into
an object and then creating
a link through a pointer
to the previous object.
So just to summarize,
a pointer indexes an object
in computer memory.
Using a system of objects
connected by pointers,
one can represent a ledger.
Now, how can we make that
ledger tamper-proof?
Well, we replace the pointer with
something called a hash pointer.
Now, what this hash
pointer does is
turn the linked list
into a block chain.
So what's a hash pointer?
Well, first we have to
understand a hash function.
Now, a hash function
is something amazing.
Well, a function is simply
something that takes an
input and returns an output.
Now, what makes
a function a function is
that you can't have
more than one output per input.
Namely, if you put
in the same input,
however many times you
put in that input,
you get the same output.
That's the defining
characteristic of a function.
However, you can have
more than one input per output.
Now, imagine a function that maps
an enormous space into
a very small space.
That's what a hash function is.
It takes an input of
virtually any size
and returns an output
of a fixed size and we will be
interested in particular kinds
of hash function,
a cryptographic hash function.
In this case, the hash
function will
return a 256-bit number.
What are the possible inputs?
Really almost anything.
So now, let's go back to
my example from before.
Maria creates a single MariaCoin,
Maria sells the
MariaCoin to Sophie,
and then we have the digest
of the previous entry, MCSM.
Sophie sells
the MariaCoin to Geoff,
and then we have the digest of
the previous entry
MSMS and then MCSM,
and then we have a digest
of the whole thing.
So there was a mapping
from the digest to
the previous element that made
this tampering difficult.
But actually in this example,
the tampering was not
actually difficult at
all because you just
needed to match the names
with the initials.
So here I created the digest.
It wasn't a very clever digest.
But what's going to
happen now is that
the hash function is going
to create the digest.
So let's see very
specifically how this works.
We're going to replace
my digest method
with one using hash functions.
I'm actually going to use
the same hash function as used
in Bitcoin which
is called SHA-256.
It will take almost anything
that you can type
up and turn it into
a 256-bit number.
I would encourage you to just
stop for a moment and try it.
You can simply Google SHA-256 to
find many examples on
the web, here is one.
So here is what I've done.
So here's my ledger
with hashes using
SHA-256 of the previous entry.
First, we have Maria
creates a single MariaCoin.
Then, Maria sells
the MariaCoin to Sophie.
Now, if you go to
the hash function and you
type in precisely Maria
creates a single MariaCoin with
the spaces with no leading space
and no following space,
you should get out
the 256-bit number that
I have printed here.
So now we have the second entry.
Maria sells the MariaCoin
to Sophie along with
the digest produced by
the hash function
of the first entry.
Now, if you go to
that hash program
and type in Maria sells
the MariaCoin to Sophie,
press carriage return and then
paste in perfectly this number,
what you should get out is
a 256-bit number that
you see in item three.
That's the hash of Maria sells
the MariaCoin to Sophie,
return and then the 256-bit
number printed into.
Now, the final step,
Sophie sells the MariaCoin to
Geoff along with
the hash of step two.
If you type that in,
you get the hash that
I printed in four.
So SHA-256 is a
cryptographic hash function.
We can kind of get
a feel for how it
worked in the previous slide.
It really produces
very random looking output.
We can make this precise.
The fact that it's a
cryptographic hash function means
two inputs are very unlikely
to produce the same output.
That means its
collision resistant.
Now, it must be
theoretically possible to
find inputs that produce
the same output because
the input space is much
bigger than the output space.
The output phase is
all 256-bit numbers.
The input space is virtually
anything you could
type in a computer.
So it must be possible
to find inputs that
produce the same
output but all we
need is that it's very hard.
Just to get a sense
of how hard it is,
any two random inputs will
have the same output.
The chance of
any two random inputs
would have the same
output is two to
the power 256 which is
an enormous number.
To put in perspective
there are an estimated two
to the power 259 atoms
in the known universe.
So SHA-256 is a
cryptographic hash function.
It satisfies
collision-resistance.
That's what I discussed
on the previous slide
namely the chance
of any two values
producing the same output
is very very small.
It also satisfies a property
called hiding meaning that,
given an output, it's virtually
impossible to
reverse-engineer the input.
Finally, it satisfies
a mysterious sounding property
called puzzle-friendliness
which actually
means what it says.
You can use it to
make good puzzles.
So that's something that
we're going to discuss later.
So using my previous example,
you can get the sense that
even a tiny amount of tampering
will produce an
enormous inconsistency
between the statement
and the hash.
So try typing different
very small modifications of
a statement and you
can see you get
a very very different output.
So unlike my trivial
digest method
where I used the first
letters of the name,
collision-resistance and
hiding means that one cannot
cleverly tamper to
produce the same hash.
Recursivity means that one has to
tamper all along the chain
to not be discovered.
So just to go back here,
if any one of
these hashes are wrong,
all the rest of the hashes
will not match.
So this makes it extremely
difficult to tamper with
this type of ledger.
So what then is a Blockchain?
It is a linked list but
instead of a pointer,
it has what's called
a hash pointer.
Now, the objects are not
individual transactions
but they are blocks.
The hash pointer is simply
the hash function applied to
the previous entry
where it was created
combined with the pointer
to the previous elements.
So it's just pointer
plus hash function.
So to summarize,
to implement property rights
within Bitcoin,
we require a tamper-proof ledger.
We begin with a linked list
that's just a ledger.
Replacing the pointer with
a hash pointer makes
a ledger tamper-proof,
it turns it into a Blockchain.
Now technically, Blockchain
is not tamper proof.
However, any tampers, it's
extremely likely to be
detected because to create
a tampering that's not detected,
you have to tamper with
every stage along the chain.
So thus it really is tamper-proof
in the strongest sense.
No one has an incentive
to even try.